---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-28
published: true
labels:
  - E3
---


This week's WOD was challenging but enjoyable. This workout of the week was called Invoice One. This WOD aimed to create a sales receipt containing at least five different products, and we needed to use expressions and variables to compute the various required values dynamically and not use hard coding. At face value, it didn't seem that bad, but going into it, I discovered it was more difficult than I thought. This week's WOD, called "Invoice1," was challenging and enjoyable. This task aimed to create a sales receipt containing at least five products, utilizing expressions and variables for dynamic computation, avoiding hard coding. Initially, it seemed manageable, but diving into it proved more complex than anticipated.
I was tempted to consult the screencast immediately but decided to tackle it independently. The first hurdle was understanding how the table functioned. It seemed intricate at first, but after experimentation, it became clearer. This understanding was crucial for handling my product data and ultimately figuring out the WOD.
My key takeaway is grasping the essentials— in this case, the table. Attempting the WOD without this understanding led to stumbling and little progress. So, the lesson learned is to research first, even if there's a notion of figuring it out eventually. It's always beneficial to RTFM.
Comparatively, rather than diving in headfirst, I delved more into research for this WOD than previous ones. Although time-consuming at the start, this approach provided me with a solid foundation, making the process smoother. Moving forward, I'll prioritize understanding the fundamentals before embarking on the task, as this method proved more effective and enlightening.
