---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG"
date: 2023-12-15
published: true
labels:
  - E6
---

## Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)
Our system was a website called Wenailed that sells different nail cosmetics. On this site we have 3 different nail collections each with their own page. Each of these products has a price, sets available, sets sold and a rating system for reviews of the products. Additionally our site also has a fully about page and contact page. Since this website was worked on in a group it also has a full admin panel that is only usable by admins. This panel allows you to add/remove products, it also allows you to add/create users and give or take away admin privileges to users. 


## Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
There were a couple of shortcomings. For one, the login system is not completely flawless. I wanted to make it so there were not two different logins with one being for admins and one being for regular users. But, trying to do this took too much of my time up from other stuff that needed to be done so instead I divided it up into two separate logins. Other than that I believe that we implemented all features including the IRs. 


## Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
By far I am most proud of the admin panel. This is something that I did completely on my own. At first I was worried just because of how complex something like this could be and, to be fair, it was really complex in the end. But, it was something that I made from the ground up. I remember when I got the feature working for the creating user feature in it, how excited I was. That's  when the realization really hit me that I do have the ability to do this. After this I put my head down and really focused on it. In total the admin panel has 437 lines of code and the admin routing I made in the server has over 200 lines. This was a lot but the whole system works and I know what everything is doing. This came in handy later on when an update got pushed to the repo that broke the panel for a little bit. Because I knew how the whole system worked, I was able to pinpoint the problem and fix it quickly. Overall this is the most proud I have been of something that I have programmed. 


## Describe what you are least happy with your system:
I was probably the least happy with IR1 in the system. This requires me to mess with a lot of things that broke some parts of the site for some time. I eventually did it but I feel like there was really a much simpler way to implement it then I actually did. Even though it was implemented in the end, it took up way too much time and I felt like I was overthinking it. Even now looking at it, I still have some feeling that I made things way more complicated than they should be for it. 


## How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?
For one, working in a group for a coding project was a first for me. Initially I thought that this would make things nice and simple, but boy was I wrong. First off our group did have great communication. We were constantly in contact with each other over messages or discord. We divided up what everyone was going to work on smoothly. The really hard part was all working on the code at once and pushing stuff to the repo. We quickly learned that when pushing things every time stuff was conflicting and we would have to go to the merge editor. This is something that we had no idea how to use at first so this became a bit of a frustrating thing. Eventually we did learn how to use it though. Another thing that made things difficult was changes each of us made effecting of changes that people made. For example, there was one time when one of the group members changed a lot of the code in the server. When I came back to my computer and started to work on the site again I now found that my admin panel was completely non functional and I knew that I just had it fully working. Now I had to go through the server code and see what got changed that was now affecting my feature. Eventually I found what it was and fixed it though. So in the end even though it was tough I feel like I learned a huge amount working in a group and I feel like I will be much better prepared to do it again. 


## When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
When I ran into an issue there were a couple of things I would do. First I would try to push through it and see if there was something I was doing wrong. This would not last long so the next step was going to online documentation or Chat GPT which was helpful in giving something that can help me but not really telling me how to implement it. Because of this the final thing was getting help from my group mates or from Dan. 


## Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
One thing that worked well during this assignment was the group communication and collaboration. Communicating together went together perfectly and everything went well. Then there was working together which we all did really well with each other and helping each other out. 


## Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
One thing that did not work well during this assignment was the github app for uploading the repos. Like I mentioned earlier we would run into issues where someone would upload something that conflicted with another thing so this generally caused issues throughout the assignment. 


## What did you learn from doing this assignment?
From this assignment I learned many things. I learned more about how routing works. I learned about how cache and cookies work and how they can be utilized for a website. I also learned why clearing your cache and cookies is a valuable thing to do and why it can break websites. The most important thing I learned from this assignment though was working together in a team on a programming assignment. This was something that I have not done before at all and there was a lot of things I did have to learn from it. In the end I came out of it with a lot of knowledge and much better teamwork skills. 


## If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
Honestly, If I could go back in time the only thing I would change is just doing more research into cache and cookies and how they work before I started working on the assignment because trying to learn and apply it at the exact same time was a little rough. But honestly other than that, there was nothing else I would want to change. I think my group did the best job we could all together and I was very happy about the outcome in the end. 


## Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
During this assignment I spent 10% thinking about the assignment. 70% building the assignment with writing code and the last 20 percent debugging. 


## Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)
I would say that each person in the group contributed 33.33% to the group assignment. I know that some of the members would say that they contributed less but I think that everyone truly contributed equally. For me I contributed by doing the entire admin panel and admin backend, developing and testing it. For Gellie, she worked on the review system and the cart. These two things were vital to our site and without them, they would have never worked. Then there was Wendy who designed the site and the pages. She was the original person who created the site before we joined in for assignment 3. She also worked on the invoice system and made sure that all the items checked out correctly. All together we put many hours into the website and had to stay up late some nights to get things working. I was very happy with the team I had and I really hope I can work together with them in the future. 
